before we implement this pass class
let's think carefully about how we use
it to make sure we know we're trying to
get so for example let's suppose you
want to know is the vertex 3 and the
vertex through time since the vertex
zero and the vertex 3 are those vertices
connected and if they're connected
what's the pass between them so the way
we'd actually use this thing the goal
we're trying to achieve as we say hey I
want to create a past object I'm going
to give it this entire graph which we
already saw two videos ago how you
construct one of those and we'll say
let's start from vertex zero this is my
start vertex we think it we can then ask
our Oracle here hey is there a past two
three did you see one when you look at
the graph you inspected the graph you
held it in your hands you sniffed it you
felt it yeah Oracle know there is a path
well hey Oracle what is the path to
three okay well in that case we get back
and this case an iterable of integers
which is going to be 0 1 4 3 which is a
valid path now we don't know right in
general it would be valid if we return 0
1 2 5 4 3 as well so both of those might
be fine and so it just kind of just
depends on how the algorithm good okay
how do we actually do this well the way
this Oracle is going to work is it's
going to behave just like the example we
did earlier so we're going to do the
following we're going to go through when
paths gets created the Oracle have
handed the graph and your graph okay so
it's my job to process it I'm playing
the part of the Oracle so what I'm going
to do I'm going to mark each vertex and
then I'm going to recursively visit all
unmarked vertices adjacent and there in
that way I'll gain total and true
understanding of the entire graph so
example data structures here I'm going
to have an array of bullion's called
marked and I'm going to have an array of
integers called edge two and both of
these these arrays are going to be of
length of V and the interpretation is
that it marked say mark 3 is true then
we've marked it and if edge 2 of 4 is
equal to 1 that means we got to the
vertex 4 via the vertex aw ok so let's
see how we would do this in action
so this is now a deeper implementation
so this is what depth first path looks
like this is the constructor running so
a hands the Oracle this graph and she
starts thinking okay what what's the
deal with this crap okay so i have two
arrays as i mentioned marked an edge to
this is all false an edge to it's
technically all zeros at first but i'm
showing it as a dash to indicate it is
not yet been set okay so we'll start by
calling depth-first search of 0 DFS 0
let's say okay so in that case what we
do is we mark a 0 then we say isn't one
marked no okay and also by the way then
what we need to do is sense one is not
marked is we're going to save the way to
get to one is to come through 0 i'm at 0
I see one no one's been there so I'll
make a note that the way to get to one
isn't start from zero and then I'm going
to continue my search at one okay so now
we get to and I guess I have a little
running tally here sharing the order in
which we called the FS so next up we
call DFS on one and then case we mark
one we've set it to true and then we
look at all the eight neighbors and we
say okay well is to marked okay well no
so then what we're going to do is we
know that nobody's ever explored to this
is brand-new territory never considered
by me the Explorer so I'll say the way
to get to two is to go through one and
then we'll call DFS on tube now you
might say what about four well this is a
depth-first search so we're considering
all the items under in this direction
before we go this way okay so we called
DFS it too and that in turn will called
the fs of five so at this point when we
get to two we called the fso to the
first thing we do is Mark to right let
me go there we've marked two and then
for every unmarked adjacent edge or try
every unmarked adjacent vertex we say
okay the way to get there is through me
so in this case is five and then we'll
go there so we get 25 and in this case
this is our that's not important the
phones are you can't tell
so this one we get 25 when we say okay
well mark five and then we'll say is two
marked yes it's already marked so we're
not going to touch that right we don't
want to change to the edge too and then
when we get to four will say okay well
so we look at all of our neighbors when
we say for each unmarked adjacent vertex
that's four six and eight we're going to
set the edge of that vertex we're going
to say the way to get 24 is through five
and we're going to do continue doing all
this again I'm trying to like conveys
the fact that yes even though
technically later we're going to try and
set six and eight even though we're
going to later set six and eight we're
going to go to for first okay so next up
after four we're going to call a DSS of
three that's going to be our next one so
the same deal we set a 32 true and in
this case we don't set any of the edge 2
is equal to 3 so if you've been watching
this maybe pause and think about that
question why did none of these get set
to three if you understand that question
you're following okay at that point we
return from dfss 3 i'm just noting it
here this is the first one that actually
gets done this is the first thing that
we've explored fully okay now we're back
from for with explored fully we get back
down to five and at that point we have
an unmarked child or a neighbor now we
have on mark child six so we'll set edge
to of 625 so notice I just change that
so we arrive at this position oh and by
the way this versus demo is fully
available online so if you're tired of
me talking and you'd rather not have my
narrative maybe explore on your own it's
linked on this book if you're six and we
go to seven all right at that point
we're done with seven we return return
return okay how about eight well in this
case we still have one more unmarked
neighbor which is eight so we go to
eight market and we set the edge to 25
when we do a bunch of return so finally
we finished this entire graph process or
graph processing process and so what our
Oracle effectively has done at this
point has explored the entire graph it's
noted that every single vertex is
reachable from zero so it is marked
array let's say I've had vertex nine
over here that wasn't reachable its
marked value would still be false but it
case all the vertices were reachable to
their truth so this right here means
that our Oracle we can ask a question is
for reachable yes does it have passed to
indeed of course it does look the vertex
is marked have an edge to we can use
that to reconstruct a path so for
example I ask the Oracle how do I get to
four well in that case we say okay to
get to for you use five okay how do you
get 25 used to how do you get to to use
one how to get the 10 and in that way
our has tap to algorithm or so I our has
passed two methods like clip we're done
our path to method will be relatively
easy to implement okay so this is what
the code might look like then this
Oracle depth-first path has two arrays
as i mentioned marked indicates whether
or not is connected edge to tells you
how to get somewhere the depth-first
past constructor i'm not showing the
initialization of these data structures
but what it does is it calls a method
that's private called DFS which stands
for depth for search and the depth-first
search method may is exactly as we just
did in the demo so what this recursive
routine does DFS is it doesn't work and
stores the results in what I call an
easy to query manner easy to query in
the sense that given this mark de Reya
can instantly give the have passed two
methods how would we write it question
to ponder okay so once that's half past
25 what do you do we simply return the
fifth element of mark how about path to
or like give me a path to it in that
case we'd have to do a little more work
and so again here's that little demo I
just shows it's on the slide so look
here it is and so this approach this
idea of searching a graph is very common
and really cool right like handing the
graph the Oracle having it sniff
everything I think it's a nice story on
so the properties of this approach will
guaranteed to reach every reachable note
that will always happen the run time
will actually be v + e the Big O time
and I'll give me analysis next time but
the basic idea is that every edge is
going to be used at most one and the
total number of vertices of they are
going to consider is going to be and
there's a number of vertices you have to
consider is going
be equal to the number of edges and
you'll see what that means but basically
it's just saying the number of times you
need to consider a vertex will be no
more than a number of edges incident on
it now the runtime may actually be
faster for some problems the reason I
say Big O of e plus e so for example
let's say that instead of assembling the
answer for the entire graph we build a
special purpose Oracle that only cares
about connectedness from some source to
some targets so instead of incest it be
impressed common entity in that case you
could actually terminate the search
early because you only care about that
information in that case maybe a runtime
could be at vast continent so for
example if you ask is s0 connected to T
equal to zero then that would be very
fast okay so that's it for this lecture
we're going to call it a day I really
encourage you to sit down with this demo
and make sure it makes a lot of sense
and then make sure to check out the
extra study guide problems linked on the
website I think that will help you
solidify your understanding of this
lecture ok so that's it for today and
I'll see you next time